Oh
[Applause]
thank you very much can you hear me
is this working thank you very much for
inviting me to speak on a controversial
subject I fully recognized the wide
range of opinions I at one time was
eager to offer my life to my country
through the Marine Corps
whatever fighting communists whatever I
was lucky in a couple of senses and that
I got into Marine Corps second force
reconnaissance company which was the
elite of the elite and therefore twice
as much fun
and I was also probably lucky that I was
between wars so I had all the fun
without having to make the decisions and
choosing and and whatnot in the CIA I
did get out the level of where people
were dying on the battlefield and this
led me to reflect somewhat deeper I was
in three of the CI Secret Wars the and
the Congo dealing with the mutinying CI
mercenaries I was up country in Vietnam
and came out with evacuation in April 75
and in the Angolan operation I had the
job as coordinator for a subcommittee of
the National Security Council of the
secret war in Angola and I obviously
concluded that these things were not
productive for US national security that
they get our nation in trouble and I
testified four days to the Congress it
wasn't as dramatic as the recent
hearings but the issues were the same
and the questions were the same we had
conspired to break the law and we had
conspired to cover up breaking the law
and I felt like I had to participate in
in the process of reasserting the system
of the government it wasn't question of
courage it wasn't a question of Oliver
North's courage or my own except in the
context that I refused to plead the
fifth amendment I figured that we had
done what we had done and if it was
illegal justice should
done and if it was not illegal we would
be vindicated but we had broken laws and
I note that if they had in fact done
their duty the congressional committees
if the prosecutors do their duty then
the nation may be spared you know ten
years from now or eight years from now a
repeat of this thing because we've had
six presidents since World War two be
humiliated in our country discredit
discredited by covert operations that
went awry I do offer a reading list we
have a great volume of information
available now about the national
security activities of our country and
other countries these books hundreds of
them had not been written when I was
faced with the decision of going into
the CIA back then so we were not
informed as to what it was all about
anyone making such a decision today
or to join the Marines or what not you
have the opportunity to inform yourself
and make an intelligent decision I urge
you to read for yourselves I urge you
not to take anything I'm saying for
granted I'm telling you that your
leaders lie to you systematically with
the purpose and it's important lies that
can get you killed and get all of us
killed and affect the world we live in
and obviously if I'm saying that they
lie I could be the one that's like this
means that you have to make up your mind
whether you're in the ROTC or you're in
the peace movement or whatever your
instincts are you have to purchase it
and go roughly to the effect that them
that don't do politics will be done so
if you don't get your heads involved
then when the bombs start going off
someday or you find yourself down on the
battlefield somewhere with your legs
blown off it's too late then to say gee
I wonder what this was all about now it
so happens that we live in a world
that's faced with greediest problems
Helen Caldicott says our planet is
terminally ill what she's talking about
is the 70,000 more or less thermonuclear
weapons that malfunction all the time
that are controlled by visibly fallible
often angry men and women we live in a
world with serious economic problems of
the kind that have led into world
in the past the world's richest country
our debt has gone from 900 billion to
2.8 billion in the last eight years
under this president and we become a
debtor nation internationally for the
first time in 70 years carrying the
largest debt of any nation in the
history of the world and this trend is
continuing there's a big change in our
status in the world and the rest of the
world visa vie us the Center for Defense
Information counts 40 to 50 wars that
are being fought in which they estimate
that four or five million people will
die there's deep concern that the United
States is on the brink of its next war
the Central American War now what is
this concern people say come on they're
not going to put the Marines into
Nicaragua let me remind you that the
Secretary of Defense in the Secretary of
State within the last year approximately
of each said publicly that if we did not
get aid to the Contras they would have
to do it with marine and the president
has said that he would not go out of
office with the Sun Anita's still in
office
and these Contras are losers on the
battlefield they are not good fighters
there's not any chance of their taking
power in Managua so for the President to
fulfill his promise he's going to have
to do it with US Marines now mind I hope
it won't happen I think it may be that
he will be prevented from doing this but
nevertheless as I say the world is
concerned that we're on the brink of our
next war meanwhile we have oversight
committee members of the Congress
staffers telling us that the CI is
running 50 covert actions around the
world today if you read Bob Woodward's
book he mentioned different categories
of operations that run 40 or 50 each at
one point he mentions a category where
he says they were so numerous that the
director couldn't count them all so
you're really talking about clearly over
a hundred possibly hundreds of
operations being run by the CIA and
these things literally subvert or
manipulate or destabilize the other
societies so we're running fifty or a
hundred or more operations to
destabilize other countries in a world
that's already about its unstable as it
can get and these things then to relate
to nuclear arms race and conventional
war and CIA destabilization
and that's what if anything else I can
give you a sense of where to think where
to read and where to look to try to
understand how these things interrelate
how does Nicaragua affect your ability
to get a job and make money in a
troubled world and the likelihood of our
planet being vaporized and the
possibility of your being drafted to be
sent aloft if you're a young male to die
and kill people for quote national
security and if that happens what is
national security I think you would want
to know what you're going off to die for
now I will get into the subject of
course from my own expertise which was
CIA Secret Wars as I said I was in three
of them
I'll run quickly through the Nicaraguan
thing a review I took it instead of
Angola the one that I managed myself
because you could Aqua has some
advantages for the purposes of analysis
because it's open on both ends if I pick
today for example Chad or Ethiopia are
comfo chia you might say how do we know
that's true what the United States
government is doing how much money it's
spending but in Nicaragua we all know do
we not the United States has massively
funded the Contra program President
Reagan is openly asking for 270 million
dollars more we know how the money has
been spent but you see what's
interesting is it's also open on the
other end when we destabilize China when
we destabilized Angola Kampuchea today
very hard from people from the United
States to go inside those countries and
see for themselves what's happening
but the Nicaraguans have kept their
country Oakland so people from the
United States can go down and see for
themselves and dozens of thousands of us
have and come back and witness and it's
very interesting so we can see it I
personally have been down ten times to
Nicaragua because I lecture on the
subject and here you have a covert
action I was in Washington I know the
rationales I know how you have decent
Christian people rationalizing that we
have to stop communism we have to
destabilize this communist society but I
was able to go down now to talk to the
comandante's who are trying to manage
your country and administer it while
it's being destabilized and look at the
agrarian reforms
see if they're sincere and talk to women
who've been gang-raped by men trained in
Florida and literally hold in my lap and
put my hands on the nubs of missing
limbs of Maine children seeing a totally
different aspect of this thing that we
decent people rationalized from the
National Security Council in Washington
this classic corporate action in
Nicaragua is of a technique they call
destabilization there are different
kinds of covert actions this one is
straight out of the book my book in fact
the parallels between Angola and
Nicaragua shocked and you changed the
names at first from what we did in
Angola and you've got you've got
Nicaragua in great detail you set out a
destabilization they call it you've set
out to put pressure on a targeted
government and you do so by ripping the
country apart by tearing apart the
economic and social fabric of the
country of breaking it down the State
Department says the purpose of this
thing is to attack economic targets now
you see the nature of that is that you
and I could have a meeting here and
discuss you know a program to attack
economic targets in a communist country
and then obviously we could go home at
night and hug our wives or our husbands
and our children and feel and be good
decent Christian people because what's
wrong with attacking the economy of a
communist country you see but when you
begin to look at it from the other end
of the line and we know lots about these
operations now in the public record what
you're doing is you're setting out the
operatives down in the field are hiring
people in this case the Contras
deliberately trying to set out to create
conditions where the farmer can't get
his produce to market where children
can't go to school where women are
terrified of being attacked inside their
homes as well as outside their homes
where the hospitals are treating wounded
people instead of sick people where
government administration grinds to a
halt an international capital is scared
away and the country goes bankrupt and
at some point in the chaos and misery
you can step in and impose your choice
of governments on that country this one
began in July 1981 in December the
finding the first 19 million dollars was
formally allocated in the historical
perspective again for analysis we can go
back to the Newsweek article November 7
1982 where Newsweek said here we go
again
we've done this before we have the
opportunity and the experience to study
what we're getting into we're making a
commitment in Nicaragua to some people
in Nicaragua and someday we will either
have to fulfill that commitment or
withdrawal Newsweek knew it noted in
this article it said that these Contras
form from samosas ex guard were the only
truly evil quote only truly evil totally
unacceptable factor in the Nicaraguan
equation Newsweek said why would we I
learn I line ourselves with those
particular people in Nicaragua years
we've also noted that they were losers
then neither the seei nor the White
House or the State Department back then
thought they had any chance of ever
taking power in Managua so Newsweek said
why would we be committing ourselves to
unsavory losers and then use weak
answered the question
it said the purpose of this program was
to push this underneath potential more
radical position from which they could
be attacked more openly so remember that
because I'll get back to it in just a
minute so we recruited this force from
samosas hated guard and we sent them
into the country to destabilize
systematically they've been blowing up
granary sawmills bridges government
offices schools health centers they mine
roads they ambushed trucks they raid
farms and villages we've got all kinds
of documentation ABC NBC CBS CB CB BC
camera crews filming this stuff as it
happens not to mention the photographs
of dozens of thousands of witnesses from
this country in Canada and Europe and
even as far away as Australia taking
pictures of the blown up schools and
greeneries and whatnot there's been
direct US military involvement which of
course means acts of war
we have mined the harbors our planes
have blown inside the country delivering
arms photographing delivering the
intelligence to the contra force that's
destabilizing the country there's been
assassination killing leaders we can
give you the lists of names of religious
workers and teachers and health workers
and elected officials and government
administrators now this too is
thoroughly documented just to cite one
source President Ronald Reagan in his
debate on television with Walter Mondale
acknowledged the assassination manual in
1984 that the CI had translated from
Vietnamese into Spanish and he said this
document was the work of the CIA station
chief in Tegucigalpa thereby one
admitting to the policy of assassination
and two admitting that the CI was behind
it by the way when the press went to the
White House the next week and said wait
a minute you said there was a policy in
the Reagan administration against
assassination how do you now turn around
and announce on television that you know
acknowledge this document and they came
up with a somatic a semantical
explanation saying that killing of world
leaders was assassination but killing of
regional leaders would be called acts of
war and the Contras were at war so that
wouldn't be assassination so the
president hadn't contradicted himself
meanwhile we have evidence coming out
some of it admitted by the White House
of world leaders being killed we have
nine hits on world leaders four of these
were successful others were not
successful but we have the documentation
to move this on because we have such a
vast amount of ground to cover right now
this morning it's a little time I'll
hold that for the question an answer but
if you want to ask about it I'll give
you the information we know about White
House admissions of assassination
attempts and the evidence we do have and
the evidence where world leaders were
killed where we don't know the details
terrorism as part of this contractility
there's no other word for it there can
be no other word for it
the Contras go into villages they haul
families out they make the children
watch while they castrate fathers and
peel the skin off their faces and put
grenades in their mouths and pull the
pin they make they make the children
watch while they gang rape mothers and
slash their breasts off sometimes they
switch it around and make the young
mothers watch while they slept 18 month
old babies throats
once again this is nobody's propaganda
it's documented and condemned by the
World Court by the Presbyterian Church
by the Methodist Church
my broad segments of the Catholic Church
a month ago the witness for peace
organization brought out detailed
documentation of the last 84 atrocities
that the Contras committed against
helpless civilians 41,000 casualties in
this thing so far 15,000 people killed
that's the figure that the New York
Times accepts as a general figure as you
know President Reagan isolated in the
White House a genuinely friendly decent
human being he likes to say I'm a contra
he likes to call these people the moral
equivalent of his founding fathers and I
assure you that the people across the
world who look at what's happening and
go in and film and photograph the
results are are astonished at this
incredible confession of this man's
family tradition
read read for yourselves there's a great
body of documentation or better yet go
down and see for yourself now you have a
unique opportunity it may be 10 or 20 or
30 years before there is a big u.s.
destabilization of a third-world country
in which you know what your government
is doing no questions about it and you
can go down you don't have to get a visa
you go through the airport you check
through customs you rent a car you get
on a bus you tour the country and you
see for yourself it's a democracy you
have been you have decisions to make in
this case you can go down and see for
yourselves now we have the Reagan
doctrine spending 1.7 billion dollars in
this fiscal year to support
low-intensity conflicts as they put it
throughout the globe now low-intensity
conflicts only the terminology and
bragging about it is new we've done
these things before once or twice like
would you believe the church committee
investigated in 1975 and found and
reported that it was finding that the CI
had run several hundred a year they said
that they they found since nineteen in
the last fourteen years before they did
their study the CI had run
900 major corporate action and several
thousand minor covert action if you took
a lower figure of several hundred a year
if you took three hundred and multiplied
it by 40 years the sea-ice been in
business you come up with twelve
thousand operations now the apologists
leap up and say wait a minute most of
these are benign nobody's getting
greatly hurt in these things it's just
minor things and that's undoubtedly true
minor things that do not brutalize
people like for example in 1984 when the
elections were held in El Salvador the
see I spent 2.2 million dollars to buy
and rig those elections how do we know
this this great pinko in Washington
senator Jesse Helms went public and told
us about it he was pissed because his
choice of candidates had been Roberta
that we son otherwise known as blowtorch
ball and the CIA had selected the
moderate Napoleon Duarte and so from his
position on the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee he got himself briefed and
then he went public he calls me a
traitor when I do that but he
immediately went public and revealed the
secret information that the CIA had
spent 2.2 million dollars
he said they told him they had done
everything but quote stuff the ballot
boxes to make sure that our choice of
candidates won now that might have not
have been brutal and gory but it
certainly makes a mockery of democracy
and when you multiply several thousand
such operations which are clearly
illegal you have to face the question of
whether or not the United States is in
fact a lawful country in dealing with
other countries internationally and many
of these things are very bloody and gory
indeed and we have a great deal of
information they have been investigated
time and again we've had six
presidencies humiliated by these things
since World War two again asking the
question an answer and I'll point out
which presidencies in which operation
I'll just whip through a bunch of these
operations to give you a sense of them
and Onision 1965 the CIA ran an
operation to discredit the Communist
Party successful beyond its wildest
dreams making it look like the party
would rise up and attack the government
until the government was
to rise up instead and put them down and
went out to the Communists and the world
witnessed a bloodbath
the New York Times reporting between
half a million and a million and a half
people killed the CIA's internal report
estimated that 800,000 people had been
killed look at page 58 of Ralph McGehee
his book deadly DC's he had custody of
this report at one time and the CIA was
claiming that this was a model to be
copied elsewhere in the world other
classic CI covert actions Guatemala
Brazil Guiana Chile the Congo Iran
Panama Peru Bolivia Ecuador Uruguay the
CI overthrew functioning democracies
remember the Henry Kissinger quote when
he was being grilled like Congress after
the track 1 track 2 operation that
overthrew and killed Salvador Allende
the democratically elected president of
Chile and Henry Kissinger's defense to
the Congress was quote the issues are
much too important for the Chilean
voters to be left to decide for
themselves these things get it then to
Wars there was a prolonged
destabilization of China like what we're
doing in Nicaragua parachuting teens
from Quemoy and Matsu Burma Tibet
Thailand into communist China to
destabilize the country with the
attendant propaganda to make us see them
in in the eyes of their being evil and
of course the propaganda in effect of
our destabilization making them hate us
until if we eventually fought China in
the Korean War and a million people were
killed there was a long destabilization
of North Vietnam despite Ho Chi Minh's
offers a friendship at doing things like
terrifying the Catholics that the
Communists would would persecute them
passing around exaggerated stories until
the Catholics began to flee offering the
land and money to any Catholic who would
flee to the South our navy conveniently
there two whole seven hundred and
thousand people to the south then
filming that in showing it on television
here in the States the show Catholics
fleeing from the horrors of communism
until we got this nation involved in a
way where we thought the Vietnam War and
two million people were killed read for
yourselves read the
hidden history of the Korean War by I of
stone read deadly deceits again by Ralph
McGehee who did two tours of duty in
Vietnam read portrait of a cold warrior
by Joseph Burt folder Smith another case
officer from Vietnam wreath fire in the
lake by Frances Fitzgerald the daughter
of Desmond Fitzgerald the sea eyes great
chief of operations for Southeast Asia
at those times in Thailand Taiwan Laos
Vietnam Lee Congo Honduras and Angola
the CI put together large standing
armies and directed them to fight in
Vietnam the Congo Cambodia Iran allows
Nicaraguan Sri Lanka the CI armed and
encouraged ethnic minorities to rise up
and fight the first thing we did in
Nicaragua was to go to the element of
the Mosquito Indians including Steadman
Fargo who had been on the CIA payroll
previously and give them more money than
they had seen in the entirety of history
and arms and training and sent them back
in to destabilize and then when the
Nicaraguans reacted clumsily we had a
great propaganda victory of Sandinistas
persecuting minorities inside their own
country in El Salvador Vietnam Korea
Iran Uganda the Congo the CIA I trained
and funded death squads the Treasury
police in El Salvador responsible for
many of the 50,000 or so people the
Catholic Church reports have been killed
down there in the last few years this
unit was formed by the CI under the
Alliance for Progress in the early 60s
and we have testimony before our
Congress as late as 1982
that its leaders were still on the CIA
payroll then you have the public safety
program I have to take a minute with
this one because it has a moral to it
this is the one where we were teaching
torture throughout Latin America we had
schools set up we graduated in the
military and police thousands of
officers who had been taught the
techniques of torture now this one the
international outcry eventually forced
us to close it down our Congress had
hearings you can get our own
congressional record and read if you
like if not get the book hidden terrors
by a jail and gut I believe is a
professor of journalism here at this
school which condenses it down to a few
pages that you can easily digest or see
the film on company business or see the
film state of siege
or see on on Frank evictions recent film
the houses are full of smoke showing in
Los Angeles right now to get a feeling
for this program and these techniques ci
trainers teaching torture you're talking
about the best and the brightest you're
talking about people with engineering in
psychology degrees refining the
psychology and techniques of torture the
most famous exponent of this thing was a
man named Dan matryona we know about him
because he was eventually kidnapped and
executed and his body was brought back
to the United States attention having
been focused on it at the time the world
was focusing on this program with the
result that we know quite a bit about
his activities seven years in Brazil
three years in Uruguay teaching torture
liaison with the police as we called it
inside the CIA mastering it refining it
to a science teaching torture how do you
teach torture if I'm dan matryona and
your class of Brazilian police officers
I give you a lecture I show you a CI
training film I give you some material
to read but you see sooner or later
you've got to get your hands wet and so
he would have beggars picked up off the
streets to be used as guinea pigs in his
torture training classes with the hora
being of course they had no secrets to
reveal they couldn't say stop hurting me
here are the names of my brothers and
sisters and whatnot one of the women who
was tortured in Brazil for two years and
eventually released from the
international outcry and testified to
international tribunal said that the
horror went beyond the physical pain and
degradation in the sense that she said
if the torturers had been raving
psychopath she might have been able to
break mental contact with them go crazy
herself but she said they were saying
normal people talking to her as say
normal people which made it harder for
her to slip out and break away she told
about this session where she's lying
naked on this table in a room full of a
half dozen men who were systematically
doing these incredibly painful and
degrading things to her body and there's
an interruption the Americans called to
the telephone in the next room the
others take the smoke break and she
listens to the conversation as he's
saying oh hi honey yeah I can wrap it up
here in another hour or so and pick up
the kids and meet you at the
ambassador's on my way home now our
society deals with
sort of horror by saying that it's done
by Aryan Gestapo maniacs in World War 2
and the Holocaust it's done by Slavic
KGB monsters now the vogue in the
missing in action films is it's done by
sadistic Vietnamese Colonels
but you see it's done by people
including people from the United States
if the society gets together and
rationalizes that this is acceptable
conduct then we do it people like you
and me dan Mitrione ii was not a raving
psychopath this man was a devoted
Catholic he was a devoted family man
he was a father of four he was a pillar
of his community and yet he devoted his
life to teaching the techniques of
torture because his society had said
that there's something so mystical about
national security that it was a good
thing for him to do with his life and
when he was killed
and exposed his body was brought back
into the United States and given a
hero's burial and the vice president
attended to inspire the others so they
wouldn't feel depressed about what had
happened so they would continue these
kinds of activities now you try to come
to grips with this stuff and say how
many people have been killed in these
things what is the impact on the world
you add up thousands of covert
operations a million in Korea killed two
million in Vietnam killed the Cambodian
saying two to three million killed in
the aftermath of our prolonged
manipulation and destabilization 800,000
in Indonesia 20,000 in the Angolan
operation that I personally supervise
15,000 until today in Nicaragua you come
up with millions millions of people who
have died in these things so you start
studying them and we have lots of them
thoroughly documented in the record
today and you study them and you find
some shocking things looking for common
denominators because the argument is
it's a rough world out there it's a
tough business maybe millions of people
have to die to keep us safe and secure
right but what you find for example is
that since 1954
we do not parachute teams into the
Soviet Union to brutalize people to make
the children watch while we brutalized
parents and all that sort of thing and
coincidentally 1954 was the year in
which the Soviet Union developed its
first capability to drop atomic weapons
on the United States you will note very
quickly in reading these things we don't
do these brutal destabilization in
England and France and Germany in Sweden
and Norway and Switzerland and Belgium
and Holland etc they're all done in
countries of the third world where the
governments are not strong enough
politically or militarily to force us to
stop these destabilization these many
millions of people who've been killed in
these things are people of the Mutulu
mountains of the Congo of the jungles of
Southeast Asia and now the hills of
northern Nicaragua who obviously don't
have ICBMs and armies and navies they
can't do physical hurt if they wanted to
and there's generally no evidence
whatsoever that they wanted to take for
example the 15,000 Nicaraguan that we've
killed in this war against communism
down in Central America today
these are 15,000 dragged poor peasants
conspicuously we're not killing Russian
advisers and Russian soldiers in
Nicaragua we're not killing Cuban
soldiers and Cuban advisers god help us
I hope we do not go down and start
killing Cubans what we're killing down
there is rag poor peasants communists
they're almost all together Catholic
enemies of the United States these
thousands of witnesses have gone from
this country down there to see for
themselves invariably come back and
report that the Nicaraguan people are
the sweetest people on the face of the
earth and they love people from the
United States and they simply cannot
comprehend why we would be doing these
things so brutal to them and to their
society now case officers who do these
things overseas by the thousands as the
Careers obviously they don't come back
to the United States and suddenly click
their heels and fall back into a respect
for the legal process we have it
thoroughly documented as well and in the
question in that sir we can go into
greater detail Yemi MH chaos program a
billion dollar program to
students and labor activities during the
Vietnam War protests the MKULTRA program
in which the United States was
experimenting a big program 200 medical
schools and mental hospitals
experimenting on unwitting American
citizens and the Church Committee
revelation in 1975 that the CI had
published over a thousand books paying
professors to write books which the CI
would edit to make sure that Fidel
Castro or Ho Chi Minh or Chu and lie for
Augustine Anette to our patrice lumumba
were made to look evil and the Church
Committee revealed that the CIA was
working with several thousand professors
and graduate students building files on
students they're even now getting so
bold that they've just installed a
permanent and officer in permanent
residency on the UCSB campus this is
something that's in the news right now
today and and the Church Committee
reported that the see I had built
relationships with a hundred two hundred
Bernstein reported in Rolling Stone
later on four hundred all together
journalism's including some of the
biggest names in the business the latest
scandal that we have on that was two and
a half years ago Leslie Gill the
heavyweight of the New York Times was
revealed by The Washington Post and then
by his own paper that in 1970 a he had
worked secretly for the CIA
while masquerading as a New York Times
journalist to recruit journalists in
Europe who would print stories to create
an atmosphere of sympathy for the
neutron bomb so now you have the CI
running these 50 to 100 to 150 covert
operations around the world
destabilizing
god knows what percentage of countries
in the world today mostly in the third
world and propping up dictatorships and
oligarchy that brutalized the people
guaranteeing continuing instability and
brutality because the people eventually
relax react and the United States
gearing up for its next war what has
prevented us from invading Nicaragua in
the last six years has been the will of
the American people 70% of us polled as
being opposed test for Weinberger saying
not with my Defense Department unless it
will be a popular
and they couldn't sell it to us so they
haven't done it yet but this is no
guarantee because they've outwitted the
people before throughout history people
have been skeptical of war and the
leaders have gotten sent to Wars if you
read US history carefully you note that
we've been in the business of being a
country for about 200 years and over 200
times we've put our forces into other
countries to force them to our will we
spent 50 years at war we fought 15 major
Wars the average amount of time between
the end of one more on the beginning of
the next one is 10 years the longest
period of time I believe was between
World War 1 and World War 2 and during
that time we put 12,000 troops into an
invasion of the Soviet Union we occupied
several seven countries in this
hemisphere including having our Marines
occupying Nicaragua the American people
have been taught successively to hate
and fight the Seminole Indians the
Cherokee Indians the British Mexico
twice the Plains Indians the Filipinos
the Spanish in cuman's the Germans the
Koreans the Soviets the Vietnamese and
of course now the Nicaraguans cranking
us up to fight in each case they have
exploited dramatic events are created
them to galvanize the national effort
the National will Pearl Harbor Lusitania
the battleship Maine the Gulf of Tonkin
incident that was used to justify going
into the Vietnam War it's now been 22
years since we went into Vietnam
fourteen years since our troops withdrew
so the wheel is turned the valve stem
coming back down to the ground we seem
to be logically time for another war so
you look around at the society to see if
in fact we're in a war mode and what you
find is definitely militarization of
society everywhere we're in the process
of spending two trillion dollars on a
military arms buildup that the greatest
military buildup in the history of the
world the glorification of war in this
society begins at the age of two pull
off the fact that we teach peace we
claim we're a peaceful nation the truth
is when a kid gets to be two we put them
in front of the one-eyed babysitter and
we turn it on and they watch shows all
day long of what's called the American
syndrome this is where you have nice
little people were put upon by evil
forts
the nice little people by the way
usually light-skinned always handsome
the evil force is usually dark always
ugly and the nice people say please be
nice
an evil forces persist and at the last
minute the nice guys rise up and stomp
them down and when cut commercial begin
next show it's estimated that by the
time we graduate from high school we
spent more hours watching violence on
television than we spent in the
classrooms themselves then you look at
the films were feeding ourselves since
1980 at a slightly older age as we're
now in our current war mode Rambo
commando Red Dawn the rocky series under
siege Delta Force America missing in
action Top Gun heartbreaker age death
before dishonor
but toon Full Metal Jacket hamburger
hill and tour of duty all of them one
way or another glamorizing war and then
you have the Audubon Society a year and
a half ago protesting that the women
Marines jogging in the mornings were
chanting I opened my window a bird flew
in and I killed it I'm a lean mean
marine and then you have these TV
commercials join the army be all that
you can be and they're fabulous you know
these tanks jumping ditches and these
computerized machinery and these
helicopters that go 200 miles an hour in
these laser controlled Cannon and I
watch these things and despite my
cynicism I find myself fitting for thank
God you know if if I were 30 years
younger in my hands couldn't shake you
know you get in these tanks and go
jumping ditches and all these exciting
things but having been there in three
wars where people are lying on the
ground dead I think as I'm sure I hope
you do and I say what's missing
something's missing
and what's missing in these commercials
and the answer is the footage of young
men with their legs blown off at the
knees or their intestines wrapped around
their necks our little girls running
down roads naked burning with napalm
because that's what war is all about and
the reason it's missing is because
they're not out to educate you in these
commercials they're reaching inside your
breasts to punch the buttons of
adrenaline and macho and testosterone to
get you fired up to join the army to be
all that you can be and be available to
fight the next war
of course kids were protesting on
campuses they didn't want to be drafted
and sent over there to kill people and
be killed
and governor Reagan said if there has to
be a bloodbath let's get it over with
and he was not talking about a bloodbath
of young means he was talking about a
bloodbath of American young people this
man came into office in 1980 promising
us the Reagan Revolution and I had the
feeling nobody was listening like that
was a propaganda buzzword and taking him
nobody was taking him seriously perhaps
because he missed speaks so often that
he's almost comical so we didn't have to
hold him accountable to his own words
and what he believes in
now I happen to be on record since 1983
as noting that this man has a defective
mind now I would always
I would always tell the audience's I
don't take cheap shots and then I would
make my case and then let them decide
on't mind if you love the guy but he
just shouldn't be president because his
mind flips in and out and I don't bother
doing this now because in the
iran-contra hearing to escape the
possibility of impeachment when we found
he said he didn't know and then the
finding was produced that he had signed
and then the answer was given that well
he didn't remember because he doesn't
pay much attention you know to these
important things but let me tell you
what the Reagan Revolution is all about
let me just review very quickly James
Watt look at his appointment James Watt
a man notoriously cynical views to our
environment made Secretary of the
Interior and Burford unshakable loyalty
to the offending corporations put in
charge of the EPA Elliott Abrams a
notoriously insensitive man put in
charge of the Human Rights Division of
the State Department this was the office
under Jimmy Carter Pat Darien that had
been taking testimony of the refugees
from the countries for Human Rights were
abused in closing this office down they
sent the files back to the police in the
countries in question and then the i ns
began to send the people back to the
countries in question then you have
Alfred Regnery this is the man who had
the bumper sticker saying if you sock at
your kid today his pediatrician went to
Washington to testify to the Congress
saying you can never give this man a job
where he has to do with young people I
know because I have to treat his
children he was appointed to what the
Juvenile Division of the Justice
Department and then you have Kenneth
Adelman who disbelieves in arms
agreements put in charge of the arms
negotiating teams and then you have a
long list of repressive laws passed
curtailing your right to know what your
government is doing and President Reagan
bragging that he's appointed 45 percent
of the federal judges to enforce those
laws and Louis Chia Frieda came out
during the hearings this summer FEMA the
Federal Emergency Management Agency
planning systematically for military
takeover to suspend the Constitution to
impose martial law working it out down
to communities as to who will move where
with what forces
to take power in this country and and
anyway senator anyway stood up when it
was brought up in the hearings and said
we can't talk about it that it's secret
I submit to you that in a democracy we
have a right to know if someone is
thinking about suspending our
constitution and the fact that they want
their plans to be secret has to be
threatening their Clause cannot be just
we are mature enough they said it's
because it relates to nuclear war
planning or war planning I submit to you
that as citizens of a democracy we are
we must be we can be responsible enough
to debate and understand that in nuclear
war the National Guard would have to be
called out to prevent looting so why are
they planning secretly to take away our
our Constitution to suspend it and
enclose martial law and the answer is
it's called the Reagan Revolution that's
what they call it now you've got to be
screaming why why to all of this stuff
it's been done by other presidents why
why would we go to war every ten years
fine with the CIA run ten thousand
brutal destabilization of other
societies why would we destabilize half
of the countries in the world today when
the world's already so unstable I don't
know I study and read and try to figure
this out myself I suggest to you that
the answers lie in the area of
aggression and economics one the easiest
way to motivate people in this country
is the football pep rally thing reach
inside and punch the buttons of macho
aggression paranoia get people fired up
to vote for you it's been done since the
beginning of history follow me and I'll
lead you to greatness
we'll go kill our enemies before they
come here and kill ourselves look at the
rationales for Nicaragua there are now
Russians flying airplanes in this
hemisphere for the first time in history
they say it's a two-day drive from
Managua the Harlingen Texas they say
it's a two-hour flight from Managua to
San Diego they say it's closer from
Managua to Houston Texas than from
Houston to Maine they say there's a
communist beachhead here in the
community entrepreneur to get us worked
up to support a warrant
and then the economics come in we're not
fighting for the bananas and coffee and
cotton and Nicaraguan can produce we
spent a billion dollars in the last
seven years destabilizing that country
and building bases in Honduras to
support an eventual invasion we could
never recover that from their coffee and
cotton its economic at a different level
simply put the dominant industry in this
society is the military-industrial
complex that's what President Eisenhower
called it the profits from military
spending or what are so attractive to
the major corporation simply put they
make 35% profit on building arms once
again we're spending two trillion
dollars on arms on this gigantic
military buildup that we're in the
process of right now this means the US
taxpayer is carrying an enormous burden
it's called a permanent war complex that
we're supporting one-third of the
current budget is for the military the
Washington Post published a study last
year in which it estimated that 53 cents
of every tax dollar you pay goes to the
military paying salaries Hardware
overhead and paying off wars past to
sell this gigantic burden to the
American people there has to be a
hostile world if the world were peaceful
we wouldn't buy it and this has to be
one of the reasons that they have the CI
out their destabilizing every corner of
the world fueling the low cut low
intensity conflicts all over the globe
to ensure that there will be hostility
and violence and danger so national
security and national defense will be so
important so they can sell that to us
while they're cutting every social
service possible in this country they're
cutting care for the old the poor the
handicapped farmers students because we
can't afford the luxuries of taking care
of our own people because we have to
carry this gigantic enormous ly
profitable military burden now the
conservative intellectuals tell you that
yes it's a little rough around the edges
but it has worked in 200 years to make
this the greatest country in the history
of the world and I submit to you that by
the same arguments we must re-examine
those rationale because it is in fact
the arms race that's breaking the United
States and rendering us non-competitive
with other countries arms do not return
enough to the economy we have been
carrying a military burden for the
Western world while our allies who are
also our economic competitors are
building better television sets and cars
and what not so we're losing in the in
the balance of trade in the trade
deficits and we're plunging deeply into
debt the MX missile for example we build
MX missiles the General Electric these
corporations love to build them because
they make huge profits on them but when
you finish an MX missile you put it in
the ground and you either close the
factory down or you build another one
and another one and another one and
another one and this is where you get
into the second problem you see there's
no ceiling on this kind of an industry
you're not going to get X number of
weapons and suddenly stop
you have to continue the arms race
forever for them to continue making
these huge gigantic profits here's what
we've got now we've got we've got the
capacity utterly to destroy 85 Soviet
Union surrender 20 planets uninhabitable
for warm-blooded light and once again no
ceiling on it when's it going to stop
when we can render 25 planets
uninhabitable potentially or 50 or a
hundred or we actually do in fact render
this planet uninhabitable here's where
we've got in the world today we've got
these cruise missiles pull off these 350
that will pull back from Europe and this
IMF agreement we have these cruise
missiles on submarines and bombers that
can strike Moscow in seven minutes time
that's not going to give them enough
time to react to call us on the hotline
to say we see missiles coming tell us
it's not true or we'll have to shoot
back if you could believe such a
conversation and if the corporal's
calling the captains and majors and
generals to the Kremlin if the phone
call could go through in time Gorbachev
might be down the hall taking a crack
and it would be all over for
world before you know the message even
got through to the Kremlin and they have
their submarines up close to our shores
so they can hit our cities in six
minutes time as well now they tell us
not to worry about these things because
there fails say you know this tension
and the machinery all pointed at each
other like that
it's failsafe but you know we can read
can't we yeah I mean if you don't have
time to read the big thick books you can
read the newspaper articles or at least
the headline just look at the headlines
from last year the Challenger to blew up
the Delta rocket blew up two Titans blew
up the French air en missile blew up the
Chernobyl plant melted down and a Soviet
ss-18 blew up and that was not a
particularly bad year the year before
that 285 million dollar satellites went
tumbling off into space and 65 million
dollar launch had to be destroyed taking
off from Cape Canaveral because it was
hitting in the wrong direction
a Soviet cruise missile went tooling
over Norway teasing the early warning
systems a Pershing to blew up on its pad
in Germany and Texas Instruments was
found to be selling faulty chips to the
80 defense contractors bomb falling out
of airplanes now here's the problem with
reading headlines as we forget last
week's headlines much less last year we
dropped four bombs accidentally over
Spain they weren't triggered they didn't
go walk you know oops sorry Spaniards if
we made you a little nervous we dropped
one off the coast of Portugal a plane
crashed in North Carolina and five of
the six safety devices when if the sixth
one had gone it would have blown we
dropped one accidentally over the swamps
of South Carolina the planes going 400
miles an hour and turning and the pilots
didn't register immediately what had
happened and some minutes went by and
they couldn't fix the coordinates simply
put they never found it and so they
eventually bought a huge tract of land
and fenced it off and declared it a
nuclear restricted zone and that bomb is
now resting down in that water if it
hasn't in fact been found by somebody
else nobody knows submarine sinking into
the ocean with nuclear weapons on board
five of them two hours three of the
Soviets we've recovered a couple of them
at least three submarines down on the
bottom of the ocean deepwater a
submarine can import
and rip apart and you have the nuclear
weapons rusting on the bottom of the
ocean today from at least three
submarines hundreds of millions of
gallons of radioactive wastes that we
have no earthly idea of what to do about
an stockpiles of biological and chemical
weapons that get no press even the peace
committee peace community don't talk
about them very much because they don't
catch your imagination because they
don't have the boom effect the
ejaculation that you know that app you
know so we just sort of ignored them all
together what's at stake in all of this
is nothing more or less than a fate of
the earth and that of course is the book
that you have to read today or at least
by tomorrow Jonathan shelf now press
1982 the fate of the earth he talks
about the first death and the second
death the first death is yours and mine
and Ronnie and Nancy's and Margaret
Thatcher's and Gorbachev and everybody
else that's when we kill ourselves with
this this game we're playing with these
weapons and the second death simply put
if the children you haven't had a chance
yet to have and the grandchildren that I
don't have the unborn generations of the
human race that may never be because of
our willingness to allow a few
corporations motivate us with hate and
paranoia and fear and anger so they can
make 35 percent profits now you have to
be screaming what can we do and the
answer is it's a tough one we're up
against an economic order that's locked
into the United States and England and
France and Germany and the Soviet Union
all of them producing weapons far beyond
any conceivable need and motivating
their societies and the Soviet Union as
here with fear and hate of each other
how do we go up against this and make a
change and the answer is at the top
point people are debating is it possible
or have we programmed ourselves to to
self-destruct but we have to try because
of what's at stake so you look at
history for examples that would
encourage you that it's you know that
with that we could make dramatic social
changes and you find some wonderful
exciting examples I'll just fight two
very quickly one
the feminist movement eighty years ago a
man could put his wife and sisters and
daughters to work 12 hours a day seven
days a week in factories and then take
their salaries and pocket it saying only
the man was wise enough to know how to
spend the money of the family and that's
been changed not by accident but by the
determined struggles of feminist
activists and they did it without
cracking skulls and killing people and
then you have the case of the professor
who stopped a war my war the end young
professor Gerry bendeth who's now with
this university then at UC San Diego had
done his studies in Angola he saw what
we were doing
he tried this in that you know what
power did he have how could he couldn't
do anything about it so he picked up the
telephone and called his senator one day
and in mature term said senator tani I
have an expertise in Angola I see what
the CIA is doing I think they're lying
to you
I would appreciate the opportunity to
brief you and the senator listened to
amateur briefing Gerry didn't go in and
accuse him of being you know part of the
military industrial complex trying to
kill us all but surely he briefed him
and soon he went back to Washington and
investigated and saw that it was true
and introduced the funny amendment to
the FBI 76 defense appropriation act
that stopped my war in Angola in 1975
and 76
Helen Caldicott at the end of her
lectures likes to tell people to get out
and get to work on this problem Europe
planet your world has a serious public
health disease she says you'll feel
better if you get out and get to work on
it as opposed to sitting back in apathy
wondering when the bombs are going to
start going off and she points out if
you do get out and get to work on it at
least when or if the bombs do start
going off at least you'll have the right
to turn to your loved one and hug them
and say honey at least we tried and then
there's a lateral Iraq at the Center for
Defense Information in Washington I went
to see and I asked him I said Admiral
I'm over my head you know people ask me
what they can do and I have no idea what
to tell him and he said oh I love this
question he said I tell him I don't know
you individually I can't know you I come
and go but you know yourselves you know
what your interest
are your talents are if you can write
write letters write telegrams write
articles write books if you can organize
organize if you can travel go to
Nicaragua or wherever and see for
yourself he says I tell them if they
feel comfortable lying down in front of
trucks with bombs on them to provoke the
community to think about it lie down in
front of trucks with bombs on them but
he said the key is you've got to do what
you can do every day of your life
depending today you can't wait wait
until you graduate in December or next
summer or you get married or you get
divorced or whatever for the simple
reason that these things could
malfunction any time there might not be
a world here by the time you graduate
next summer thank you very much for
hearing me out
[Music]